
#  << ---------------------Spring boot interview questions  -------------------------->>
 
1.What is Open-API and swagger ? Are they same or different ?
2.How will you implement interceptors and filters while using spring boot ?
3.What are the core classes to implement the Spring Security ? Is this any how different while using with spring MVC or with spring boot ?
4.What is service mash ?
5.Name two service discovery which you have implemented in your spring boot microservice application ? Is there any configuration needs to be added to your application or in K8s cluster related to this ?
6. Name Load balancer which you are using in your application and what all steps need to follow while configure it with Kubernetes or any of cloud ?
7.How will scale your single microservice or multiple microservices ? is application.yaml or application.properties enough or you have to tell any thing to your cloud environment ?
8.What is cloud formation template ?
9.What is the difference b/w Joint Point and Point Cuts in Spring AOP.
10.What is use of Spring Batch , have you ever implemented the same , if yes kindly tell me the steps ?
11.What are the basic commands to create a docker image and where are you storing your docker images ?
12.What CICD tools your are using in your project for Continuous building and continuous deployment ?
13.Different type of inheritance in Hibernate ?
14.How many tables will create in many to many relations ?
15.What is the use of sleuth in spring boot microservice application ? As Spring boot 3.x no more supporting sleuth ,please name the alternative for same.
16.What is Micrometer Tracing in spring boot 3 ?
17.What are ways of communication between microservices ?
18.What type of injection use by @Autowired ?
19.Why constructor injection is a recommended approach over setter base i?
20.Please describe the workflow of kafka ?

21.Primary key vs Unique key ?
22. What is Triggers in Database ?
23. Prepared Statement vs Statement ?
24. DataBase Indexing ?
25.Concept of Sharding ?
26.Hibernate First Level vs Second Level Caching ?
27.Get vs Load ?
28.Save vs Persist ?
29.Response Entity ?
30.How to configure multiple databases in springboot application ?
31.How to declare Global Exceptions in Springboot application ?
32.explain Bean LifeCycle ?
33.Explain IOC Containers ?
34.Explain Dependency Injections ?
35.Explain Application Context ? Why it’s use ?
36.How to Enable multiple Eureka Servers ?
37.Spring Filter vs Spting Interceptors ?
38.Why Transactional annotaion use?
39.Spring Security Context Explained ?
